(CAPTAIN PHILLIPS)
(UNDERHILL. VERMONT)
(MARCH 28. 2009)
(MAERSK
LINE. LIMITED)
(Vessel: Maersk Alabama)
Okay.
You all right?
Yeah.
You'd think these trips would get easier
but it's just the opposite.
Well. I feel the same way. Ange.
I know this is what we do.
This is our life.
But it just seems like
the world is moving so fast...
and right now things are changing so much.
They sure are.
I'll tell you something.
It's not gonna be easy for our kids.
They'll be going into a different world
than the one you and I came into.
Yeah.
You know. both our kids are doing great.
But it worries me
when Danny doesn't take school seriously.
Him missing class. That could come out...
it might hurt him when he's out
looking for a job. you know?
The competition out there.
When I was starting out...
you could make captain if you put
your head down and you just did your work.
But young guys coming up now...
companies want things faster and cheaper.
And 50 guys compete for every job.
Everything's different
and big wheels are turning.
You gotta be strong to survive out there.
I hear what you're saying.
It's gonna be okay. right?
Oh. yeah.
Gonna be okay.
"This is a special security announcement."
"Please maintain control
of your personal belongings at all times."
"Unattended baggage is subject
to search. inspection and removal."
- I love you.
- Love you too.
- Have a safe trip.
- I'll call you from there.
(EYL. SOMALIA)
They're here.
Hurry. Muse.
What the hell are you doing?
Why aren't you out on the water?
You know what you're supposed to do.
You should be out there earning money.
But we caught a ship last week.
That was last week.
The boss wants money today.
Bring Garaad another ship soon
or you will answer for it.
Everybody. get back to work now.
Stay out of my way today.
Hufan. Hufan.
I'm going to get us something big.
Those who want to make money. come.
Muse. take me with you.
Does your sister know you're here?
She's selling khat up there.
This is her best stuff.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
When we get a big ship.
you will be well paid.
You want to work?
- Do you know how to steer a boat?
- Yes.
Go. go.
I'm ready.
- What do you have for me?
- Money.
- When are you gonna give it to me?
- As soon as we're paid.
Get on.
Spread out.
Let my other man choose his crew.
- Muse.
Next time bring me something
if you want to work.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Come on. Bilal.
Hey. Skinny. I can steer your boat.
If you choose me. you won't regret it.
Okay. Elmi.
I need somebody strong.
Somebody like this?
I want him.
Get out of my way.
Why did he pick him?
He's from another village.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Move. Move. Move.
Faster. move faster.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
See if you can get more power.
- Okay.
- You. You.
Get over here.
Come help us.
(SALALAH PORT. OMAN)
Okay. pull it in.
Sign right there. sir.
You have a good day.
- Hello. Cap. Let me get that for you.
- Morning.
"Attention. all crew. All crew.
1500 departure 3 out."
- Hey. good to see you. Cap.
- Shane. Good to see you.
- Good to see you.
- Hey. Carry on.
- Hey. boss?
- Yeah?
Get on that safety rail. huh?
- Kenny.
- Yeah?
I want you to go down to the deck office.
grab Jimmy. get on the Lodestar.
That ballast. move it five points.
- Take care of that now.
- You got it.
- How's the family. Cap?
- Oh. you know.
Andrea's a champ. one kid gone.
another kid going.
How are the boxes?
Oh. you know.
Just putting a few last containers on.
2.400 tons of commercial cargo.
200 tons of food aid...
a 166 tons of freshwater.
250 metric tons of fuel bunkered.
Walk me through the plan.
So here we are in Salalah.
Travel down the coalition corridor
to Djibouti.
Then we exit the shipping lane
south of Socotra.
Socotra. okay.
Then we're on our own down the coast
through the Somali Basin...
all the way down to Mombasa.
"We need five minutes on that reefer bow."
We should be able
to unload the containers around 0800.
Well. let's tighten up security.
We are going around the Horn of Africa.
right?
We got pirate cages. They were all open.
All the doors are unlocked.
I want everything closed. locked.
even in port.
- Right.
- Fine. Ready to leave. 1500.
Absolutely. Cap. You got it.
Stow the gangway.
Last lines in.
Hey. okay.
Okay. Lower it.
Sixteen-B ready. Take it up.
Tighten it up.
Hey. slow down.
(MAERSK ALABAMA
NORFOLK. VA)
Bow clear.
Stern lines are clear.
Bow thruster full starboard.
Bow thruster on.
All lines clear. Ship is under way.
- Dead slow ahead.
(MAERSK LINE)
Keep those hatches locked down.
- Cap.
- Morning.
Check that rigging.
- Shane.
- Yeah?
- We need those time sheets.
- Right.
She's winking at me like this.
But it turns out that's what they do.
I'll show you this place.
I'll take you there. We got to go.
I'll have two beers
and a bucketful of sin. please.
Yeah. About done with that coffee?
Right.
- Yeah.
- Yeah. we're done.
That's 15. guys.
Back to work. Come on. let's go.
- Jesus.
- See you down there. Mike.
Their main route is packed with ships...
but we can't attack a herd.
This one is alone.
(PIRACY ALERT WARNING
OFF SOMALI COASTLINE)
Morning.
Hey. Cap.
- Cap.
- Morning. Cap.
Shane. I want to do some security drills.
unannounced.
Starting now.
What? Fire. man overboard?
Everything. Ken. you're the duty officer?
- Yeah. Cap.
- Right.
Boat with two armed men is approaching
on your starboard beam.
- No. no. Whistle first.
- Let's go.
That way the pirates know we're aware
of them and are ready to defend the ship.
Hustle up. Let's go.
Attention. all crew.
"All crew.
All men to your stations on deck."
Repeat. all men to your deck stations now.
Let's do this.
Come on.
Get those keys off your hip.
Put them in your pocket.
Come on. Come on. guys.
Pirates capture you and find those keys...
they'll have access to every door
on this ship.
Get those hoses on.
Bring it around. bring around.
bring around.
- Watch it. man.
- Ready with number six.
All right.
You tied up?
All done here. Shane.
- Hey. Cap. this is Shane. Do you read?
- Yeah. Shane. go ahead.
Things are looking pretty good down here.
We're getting close with the hoses.
All right. Let me know
when you're ready down there.
"Copy that."
Shane. come up to the bridge.
"Okay."
What's up. Cap? Everything okay?
I don't like the look of that.
- Yeah. Cap.
- Chief. I want all your guys on station.
- Still in the drill?
- "No. This is real-world."
We got someone coming up
on our starboard quarter.
Got it.
Port. five degrees.
Let's see if they follow us.
Port. five.
Get the crew back
to their muster stations.
Right.
Attention. all crew. Attention. all crew.
Return to your muster stations.
"Repeat. return to your muster stations."
This is not a drill.
This is a real-world situation.
- Yeah. Cap.
- I want to come up to 122.
Helmsman to the bridge.
Second mate and helmsman to the bridge.
please.
You're good. Bring her on up.
Now get me US Maritime Emergency.
Two skiffs.
Can't tell how many they're carrying.
Copy that.
There's no answer
at the US Maritime Emergency line.
- Raise the UKMTO.
- Right.
What's up?
We got two skiffs approaching.
Get on the radar.
Yeah. this is the Maersk Alabama.
Here's the captain.
UKMTO.
- Operations?
- "Receiving."
This is the Maersk Alabama.
"Our position is 2 degrees 2 north
by 49 degrees 19 east."
"Our course is 180.
Our speed is 17 knots."
We have two skiffs approaching
at a distance of 1.5 miles...
with a possible mothership following.
- "Potential piracy situation."
- Copy. Alabama.
You should alert your crew.
get your fire hoses ready...
and follow lockdown procedures.
Yeah. Is that it?
I'm relaying your transmission now
but chances are it's just fishermen.
They're not here to fish.
She's really big. Get ready.
You worry about yourself. skinny rat.
Both skiffs carrying armed men.
- Distance?
- One and a quarter miles and closing.
- Yeah. Cap.
- I wanna bring it up to 125.
- You're still good.
- 125.
Brothers.
we're going to make a lot of money.
Slow down. The waves are too big.
They're at one mile now. Cap.
Only one mile.
Coalition Warship 237.
this is Maersk Alabama.
Coalition Warship 237. Maersk Alabama.
Go. Alabama.
Our position is 2 degrees 2 north
by 49 degrees 19 east.
"Our course is 180.
Our speed is 18.5 knots."
"We are being approached
by two pirate skiffs..."
"with a possible mothership following."
"We require immediate assistance."
We have a crew of 20.
"We are preparing our weapons now
but request air support if possible."
Copy?
Copy. Alabama.
Be aware. a gunship is in the air.
ETA your position. five minutes.
Five minutes. Thank you. 237.
Did you hear that? Did you hear that?
We've got to get out of here.
Turn back. turn back.
What are you doing?
Where are you going?
Come on. Keep going.
Yeah. we got one down.
But the other one's still coming.
Half a mile out.
We need to make a bigger wake.
- Yeah.
- Cancel the limits. 129.
Yeah. you're on the edge
with Cylinder Number 5.
Do it.
-Port. five degrees.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Faster. faster.
Cap. they're at a quarter mile now.
- Starboard. five degrees.
Hurry. hurry. Go.
We're pushing this engine too hard.
Faster. faster.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Come on. let's go.
This thing is busted.
- Then fix it.
- I'm trying.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
They're not messing around.
They lit us up from miles away.
Must've been tracking us.
Why doesn't the shipping company
give us armed guards?
Move it in. Let's go. The captain's here.
Blips on the radar
that are clocking at. like. 27 knots.
Guys. come on.
- We cannot outrun these guys.
- Let's go. guys. settle down.
Obviously. we all just went
through a dangerous situation.
Two skiffs. both with armed intruders.
Now. we all know that's a king of thing
that is a hazard...
in these waters but you performed well.
The ship performed well.
The authorities have been made aware
of what's going on...
so I think we have the situation
pretty well in hand.
From now on.
we just follow our normal duties.
Mate. what do you got?
Yeah. We're all on double shifts
until we make it through these waters.
All right. Chief. can you keep
your engineers on roster form?
We'll keep a guy down there in the ECR
around the clock.
All right. Enjoy your coffee.
Cap.
They're coming back.
- Amen. Yeah. that's right.
- Yeah. that's right. They're coming back.
If they come back. we'll follow procedure.
They worked today. they'll work again.
We got the speed. we got the height.
we got hoses that can sink those skiffs.
We will follow the procedures even
if we have to shut down. lock down...
go dead in the water and wait for help.
Now. wait. I'm a u. okay.
I'm a union guy. okay?
Twenty-five years. all right?
But I'm telling you now that they're not
paying me enough to fight pirates. okay?
You all signed up for a route
to went around the Horn of Africa.
- What did you expect?
- I didn't sign up for the Navy over here.
Okay? I signed up--
You signed up for the route.
- You signed up for this.
- Right. For a cargo ship.
- What did you expect?
- Not getting attacked without weapons.
Wait. why don't we just get out of here?
We get out. We put room between us.
- Go where? Go where?
- In eight hours
we could be. what. a 100 miles from here.
Hundred to a hundred fity easy.
There's five pirate bands...
that are working in this part
of the world right now.
You go out 300 miles. you run into one.
go 6. you run into another.
Look. our job is to move the cargo
as fast as possible. That's the job.
Well. now. if anybody doesn't like it.
if anybody wants to get off this ship...
if anybody doesn't like this route between
Salalah and Djibouti and Mombasa...
come up to my office and we'll sign
the paperwork per the union...
and you'll be on the first flight home
out of Mombasa.
Enjoy your coffee. Let's get back to work.
Go get those guys squared away. will you?
Yeah. I better.
The ocean was rough. Really rough.
Hufan. I'm telling you.
our boat couldn't take it.
Nothing was working for us.
Hurry up.
We need a bigger one for that ship.
I want this welded by the morning
by tomorrow. got it?
Elmi.
When will that engine be ready?
We've gotta fix it.
This thing is old and weak.
It's a piece of shit.
Shut up and fix it for your crew of women.
Why don't you give me your engine?
Shut up. Skinny. You talk too much.
I may be skinny but I'm not a coward.
What did you say?
Say it again.
You think you're somebody?
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
The coward is the first one in the grave.
"Captain. this is Shane."
Yeah. go ahead.
"I think you better get up here."
Coming.
- Where are they?
- Port quarter.
1.7 miles. captain.
Guy's coming on his own.
Sound the alarm.
Get US Maritime Emergency for me.
Muster stations. This is not a drill.
Everyone to muster stations.
- This is not a drill.
- Come on.
Shit.
Come on. Let's go. Go.
- Yeah. Cap.
- Chief. they're coming back again.
I want max revs. Take all the limits off.
Copy that. Cancelling all limits.
- Five degrees starboard.
- Starboard. five degrees.
Get ready.
US Maritime Emergency line.
This is the Maersk Alabama.
We are under pirate attack at a--
- What's happening?
- Ken. get out here.
I need eyes on the wing.
- We got a skiff coming in.
- All right. all right. I'm on it.
Our course is 166.
Our speed is 19 knots.
Copy that. Alabama.
Relaying to military channels now.
Copy that.
They're coming in fast. Cap.
"Alabama."
"Alabama ship."
Somali coast guard.
This is a routine check.
Stop your ship now.
"We are coming aboard.
We're here to help you."
- Shane. they're dead astern.
- Jesus Christ.
- "Yeah. Cap."
- Chief. we're gonna need the hoses.
Yeah. your pumps are good.
- Count it down for me. Shane.
- Yeah. They're at 800 yards.
- Prepare for hard turns.
- "Stop now."
- Standing by.
- Alabama. this is your final warning.
Stop the ship.
They're not stopping.
Show them who we are. Muse.
Shoot at them.
Shots fired. Shots fired. Hit the hoses.
Turn.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Coming in close. Cap.
Shane. Hose seven has slipped.
Bay 17. I'm on it. Shit.
- Be careful.
- I'm on Channel 3.
It's clear over there.
They're coming back in.
Untie the ladder.
Give me the other one.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Shoot him.
Let's go. let's go.
Hurry up. Bilal.
Move your ass. kid.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Channel 3. Shane. get out of there.
Get everybody for safety
down to the engine room.
I need you in command there.
Stop him.
All crew. All crew.
All crew to the engine room.
All crew to the engine room now.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Come on. let's go. Let's move it.
- Move it.
- Come on. men.
Higher. Get it higher.
- Port. 30 degrees.
Hook it on.
They got the ladder up.
Starboard. 30 degrees.
Get out of my way.
- Port. 30 degrees.
- Starboard. 30 degrees.
- Starboard.
Come on. man. Someone's shooting at us.
Hang on.
Just get together against the wall.
- Cronan. Cronan.
- Yeah.
Hold them by the door.
We're gonna get a head count.
All right. Go down to the door.
- Mike?
- Yeah.
- How long till you can shut her down?
- Five minutes.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Four pirates onboard.
Four pirates.
coming towards us down the main deck.
- Lock down the bridge.
- Yeah.
Listen up. We have been boarded
by four armed pirates.
You know the drill.
"We stay hidden no matter what.
I don't want any hostages."
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
We stay locked down until help arrives.
No one comes out until you hear
the non-duress password from me...
which is "suppertime."
Jesus.
If the pirates find you. remember.
you know the ship.
They don't.
Make them feel like they're in charge...
but keep them away
from the important things...
like the generator
and the engine controls.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Stick together...
and we'll be all right.
Good luck.
Take everybody down to the bottom
of the engine room.
I want you to hide them
behind the cylinders.
Try to split them into groups
of threes and fours.
- Hey. Don't move. Don't move.
- Okay. okay.
- Don't move. I said. Don't move.
- All right. All right.
Okay.
Okay. All right. Okay.
Don't move. We have four.
- All right. all right.
- Don't move. We have four. Four.
No. no.
Get away. Get over there.
Captain.
Relax. Nobody get hurt.
No al Qaeda here.
Just business. We want money.
When we get paid.
everything gonna be okay.
The ship.
Where from?
The ship? America. It's an American ship.
America? Yes. Yes.
You?
Yankee?
- Me? Yeah. yeah. Yeah. yeah.
- You.
Yankee-Irish. Yeah.
From now on this one is called Irish.
okay?
- Irish.
- Irish. Irish.
Okay. Irish. What else you carrying?
What do you mean?
TV? Car?
TV and car? No. no. We just got the food--
Dollars?
We do. Kenny?
Kenny. what do we have in the safe?
We got like. what. 30.000 dollars
in the safe?
Yeah. we got like. we have.
in the safe. we got 30.000 dollars.
It's yours.
Thirty thousand dollars?
What am I? Do I look like a beggar?
What's that?
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
It's all right. It's all right.
It's all right.
Hey. calm down. Calm down.
Get back there.
Yeah. yeah. over here.
We got a problem.
We pushed the ship too hard.
We're off the grid.
That means the computer's now off-line.
- Captain. Captain.
- The ship's broken.
No one get hurt if you don't play no game.
It's. the ship's broken. We had to go--
Nobody gets hurt. Easy.
Hey.
- Look at me.
- Sure.
I'm the captain now.
Watch this ugly one.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
What are you doing?
I'm going to fix it.
Do you know how?
Hold the gun on him.
I've got him. don't worry.
Don't mess with anything you don't know.
Come on. man.
- What are you doing?
- Just take care of that guy.
Stop the games.
Where is the crew?
I don't know. I don't know.
I'm here with you.
- Where is your crew?
- I don't know. Here. I'll call them up.
I'll get them up here. all right?
All right. look.
this is the captain speaking.
The pirates demand all crew members
to the bridge. All--
Every crew...
"one minute. I will kill someone.
One minute."
Another minute. I kill somebody.
"I kill all your friends. One minute."
"I will no call again."
Get that one and put him against the wall.
- Look. I'm trying--
- You think we playing?
- No. I'm doing the best--
- No play. No play.
- I'm doing the best I can.
Easy. I kill you. Easy.
No. no. no. Look.
You don't have to do that.
- No. Come on.
- You play? You play?
Take it easy. take it easy. No. no. no.
- No. look. look.
- Stop play. Stop.
Don't shoot him. Don't shoot him.
You're gonna shoot somebody. shoot me.
- Where is the crew. Irish?
- 40 seconds.
I don't know. I'm here with you.
No. Where is the crew?
I see nobody.
- I'm the captain. I'm the captain.
- 30 second.
If you're gonna shoot somebody.
you shoot me.
-You killing him.
-It's my ship.
- Listen to me.
- You killing him.
I'm the captain.
I'm the captain. not them.
- Twenty second.
- This is between us.
I'm trying to straighten this out.
Are you?
This is how you solve your problems?
You said you just wanted money.
You said this was just business.
Is this business?
- Is this how you do business?
- Ten seconds.
Die right now.
You think we playing?
Wait.
I want to search the ship.
You wanna search the ship?
I want to search every lock and hold
of the ship now.
- You wanna search the ship?
- Now.
All right. All right.
We'll search the ship.
We'll start on the nav deck
and work our way down.
But we better hope
the emergency power stays on.
"Because we won't be able to see
a thing if it goes off."
"I'll take you. We'll search the ship."
But you stop threatening my men.
- No game.
Let's go.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
All right? All right. good.
Take his radio.
The radio.
All right. Okay.
Go.
We gotta get these lights off.
If they come down here.
they're gonna see us.
We need to shut down the generator
on the main deck.
- You think you can get up there?
- Yeah.
Okay. I'm gonna go up to the mess.
get us some water.
Go on and get everyone down
on the lower level.
All right. I'm on two.
Just start at the very top.
This is E Deck.
And we'll just work our way down
one by one. huh?
Cargo hold is probably where they are.
There's a lot of places
to hide down there.
And I'm not trying to trick you.
I wanna find these guys
just as much as you do.
Take his flashlight.
We should just move on. you know.
because we're wasting time here.
Like I say.
the cargo deck's the best place to look.
Somebody messing with ship.
Engine room.
What? If we're going about this
systematically. we started at the top...
we're working our way down.
so we should try the cargo deck.
Problem from engine room.
We go there now.
All right. Engine room.
It's gonna be really hot down there.
Without the power on.
there's no ventilation. no air.
Maybe we should get some water maybe
from the mess down on A deck?
- Then engine room. Go.
- Okay.
This is A deck.
So here we are.
This is the galley.
This is where we make the food.
All right. Here. some water.
Check this room.
Oh. you wanna see in here?
This is cold storage.
It's a vegetable room.
Careful in here in the bare feet.
You could cut them on almost anything.
Here. Want some of this melon?
It's left over from breakfast.
It's just gonna go bad.
It's just gonna spoil.
It's usually left out
for the first meal of the day.
Maybe we should.
go ahead. help yourself. Here you go.
Help yourself.
It's usually for breakfast but...
Enough. Engine room.
All right.
- Cronan. Cronan. Do you read?
- Yeah. I got you.
"They're on their way to you.
Repeat. They're on their way to you."
One of them is barefoot.
Is there any glass or something
you can break...
leave on the floor
by the engine room door?
I'll do it. Come on. let's go. Come on.
Here's the engine room.
- (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- Oh. my God.
Look out. There's broken glass.
Be careful.
- Put your hand up. Up your hands. Up.
- What? What? Okay. all right.
- Up.
- (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- Wait. there's a first-aid kit--
- Put your hands up now.
- Who did this?
- Nobody. It was just a dumb accident.
We should get that looked at.
There's a first-aid kit
back in the engine control room.
Quiet. Irish. You think I am stupid?
I know what's going on.
We're going to search this whole room.
All of it. Now go.
Go.
I heard something.
Check the other side.
There's no one here.
Please. let's go back.
Keep looking.
Go. Right down to the bottom. Now.
They're coming. Get ready.
Keep going. Move.
Wait. Stop here.
- What? What'd you do?
- What?
- We just--
- Look at me. Irish. Look at me.
What's wrong with your ship?
- I don't know.
- Was that you?
- I don't know what went wrong.
- No.
Look. you'll never be able
to find this crew...
not without any power
anywhere on the ship.
You'll never find them.
We'll never find them.
Irish...
I will find.
Not with him.
Look at that. He's gonna bleed to death.
Look. man. get us out of here.
You got a man injured.
Let's take care of his foot...
take the money out of the safe
and call it a day. All right?
You're bad luck. Irish.
Hey. take him upstairs.
I can't move.
Take him upstairs and tell Najee to come.
- You go with him.
- We're gonna go?
Go.
Hey.
Wait.
You're not gonna find anybody.
Don't talk. Go.
Your friend make fool of us?
Make us run around?
If one of them moves.
send them to their graves.
Here.
Hey.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
We got a problem.
Your buddy's hurt real bad.
We better get this dressed.
We got a sick bay here onboard
and this guy knows what to do.
What happened to you?
They put glass down for me. They got me.
Where is Muse?
In the engine room.
He wants Najee to come down.
"Bridge. Bridge. come in."
"Alabama bridge. come in. Do you read?"
"This is the crew of the Maersk Alabama.
We have your captain."
"Put your hand over his mouth."
- Hey.
- No.
"We have your leader."
We have your captain and his weapons.
We wanna trade.
Captain for captain.
We want to make a deal.
Take that off of his head.
Cronan. take that off his head now.
I no kill.
Talk. Talk to your friends
so they know it's you. Talk.
Talk to your friends.
Come on. asshole. Say something.
I love America.
Hey. Get me out of here.
"Listen to what these guys have to say."
What happened?
"They cut my hand. bad."
We'll straighten everything out later.
Just get me out of here.
"Give Irish the radio."
I'll give it to him now.
"Talk.'
Captain. you know.
if you wanna get off this ship...
I know you don't have a skiff anymore
but you could get into our lifeboat.
You could take off off our stern...
and you can go with the 30.000 dollars
we have in the safe...
and you could get off this ship right now.
"Do we have a deal?"
Say we have a deal. Say we have a deal.
Okay. Irish. Deal.
- Deal. Irish. deal.
- Okay. then.
- Listen. we could--
- Hey.
Thirty thousand is nothing.
I want millions.
There. All right. there's the lifeboat.
Hey. Bilal. check it out.
If anyone moves. kill them.
Kill them.
Where is our captain? Where is our guy?
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Hey. Cap. Cap. it's Shane.
I'm not armed. I'm not armed.
No weapons. No. Hey. easy.
There's no weapons.
There's no weapons. No weapons.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Hey. Shane. Do you have the captain?
Where is the captain?
Chief's got him down in the engine room.
Well. bring him up so they can see him.
- I wanna see.
- You will. You will.
- Bring him up so they can see him.
- He's on his way. Cap.
- Where?
- Here he is. Yeah. there he is.
- See? See? There he is. There.
What's going on. Skinny?
Do what they say
and get me out of here.
Be strong. man.
Now let's do this.
We'll bring up your guy.
All right? You get in. you buckle up.
We drop you in and then
you're on your way. Okay? Okay?
No. You come with us.
Till we get our guy back.
- No. no. no. You'll get your guy back.
- No way.
- Hey. Hey.
- Get in.
Listen. Hey.
You come or I kill everybody.
I don't care.
It's your choice.
- All right. All right.
- You go. You go. You're going.
All right. Chief. bring the guy up now.
It's gonna be okay. Bring him up.
- Shane. you got the crew.
- No. Don't go. Cap. Don't get in there.
- We gotta get them off the ship.
- Not like this.
Cap. you can't do this. Goddammit. Cap.
All right. who's driving this thing?
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Watch him.
Bilal. hold the gun on him.
Now. look. it's very simple to operate.
On. off. start. stop.
Compass to follow your heading.
You see your throttle there.
- You got a squawk box.
- Gas. gas. Enough gas?
Plenty of fuel to get you
all the way to Somalia.
"Cap. we got the guy. We got the guy."
All right. All right. Send him on in.
I'm coming out.
Okay. send him in. Let him go.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- Let him go.
- Hey.
Go. Send the captain out.
All right. now. that handle. see?
You're gonna wanna move that up and down.
You gotta pump it. one. two. three.
four. five and then you drop.
"Cap. come on out."
"Cap? Cap. what's going on in there?"
Just however many times it takes...
pump it. then you're in the water
and off you go.
Go.
Go back.
Hey. Cap.
Goddammit. No.
- Goddammit.
- Dammit.
- Cap.
- No.
Sit. Sit.
Here. Sit.
Go.
Irish. it's only us now.
(USS BAINBRIDGE
ASSIGNED TO COUNTER-PIRACY TASK FORCE 151)
- Stand clear.
- Make a hole.
Make way.
Copy.
- Captain's in Combat.
CTF 151.
this is Bainbridge Charlie-Oscar. Over.
"Captain. this is Admiral Howard."
"A US-flagged cargo ship.
the Maersk Alabama..."
"has been hijacked 820 nautical miles
west of your current position."
"Four armed men have taken the ship's
captain hostage in a lifeboat."
"Presumed Somali pirates. Over."
Roger. ma'am.
Do we have any other information? Over.
"Not at this time. captain but best guess
is they're heading for the Somali coast."
"Your orders are to proceed
at bset speed and intercept."
"Further to follow. This is CTF 151 out."
Ops. prep ScanEagle.
Need aerial surveillance.
Aye. sir.
CCS. this is the captain.
Come to full power.
- TAO. get position.
- "TAO. aye."
Bridge. captain. full left rudder.
Come to course 285.
Hufan. do you read me?
Hufan. can you hear me?
Where's your boss?
He should be with us by now.
Don't worry. He's coming.
Stupid hand.
Stop whining.
You sound like a little girl.
You wanted to come with us.
You asked for this.
I didn't think this would happen.
I could lose my foot.
You have to be ready for anything.
This game isn't for the weak.
You okay. Irish?
Yeah.
Your face looks scared.
But everything gonna be okay.
I'm not gonna hurt you.
In two days we'll be eating in Somalia.
Rice. Goat meat.
You'll like.
My boss talk to ship company.
Insurance man come. bag of dollars...
you go home.
What is it?
It's a gift.
Hey.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Irish.
You lie. Irish. Your ship no broke.
They come Somalia too.
More money.
Looks like they're heading north
to the closest point of land.
And that's only gonna take them 36 hours
at the most?
Just gotta stay with them
till the Navy gets here.
Give me some khat.
Why? You've had more than your share.
Says who? Give me some more.
Shut up.
Both of you. shut up.
Just take it.
This is it?
- This is it?
- That's all I have.
- Where is the rest?
- I don't have any.
It's all gone.
You are useless.
I should have taken it from you.
Irish. it's taxes.
This money. taking you. that's all it is.
You come to our waters. you got to pay.
We were in international waters.
Not your waters. international waters.
We were carrying food
for starving people in Africa.
Even Somalis.
Yeah. sure.
Rich countries like to help Somalis.
Big ships come to our water...
take all the fish out.
- What's left for us to fish?
- So you're fishermen?
Yeah. we're all fishermen.
Hey. let me clean out that cut.
Let me get the first-aid kit.
clean that out.
It's gonna get infected.
No.
Well. how about the kid?
Can I look at his bare foot?
No.
They'll fix him when we get back.
No. Come on. he's barefoot.
You three got sandals.
He's got bare feet.
Go ahead. go.
All right.
Just gonna get the kit.
Go ahead. come here. It's all right.
Here. Your foot. Give me your foot.
Come on.
Let me see it. It's all right.
How old are you. anyway?
What are you. 16. 17?
You're too young to be out here
doing this.
No talking.
Hey. Hey.
He's got a knife.
Hey. What you gonna do with this?
Go back. Get back there.
UAV ScanEagle shows the lifeboat
is currently 126 nautical miles...
off the Somali coast.
moving on course 305 at 5 knots...
with the mothership dead in the water
at 60 miles to the northeast.
We have any idea who these guys are?
"The mothership is a Taiwanese fishing
trawler that was hijacked last year."
"According to ONI's database..."
"that vessel's under the control
of Somali warlord. Garaad."
"We're working on getting the IDs
of the kidnappers."
If this is Garaad's guys. they're looking
for a payday. which means they'll talk.
If we can get them talking.
we can begin to wear them down. Over.
"Frank. you need to know that
this thing is running big here..."
"and there's a lot of pressure building."
"The White House hopes
this can be resolved peacefully..."
"but whatever happens.
Captain Phillips does not reach Somalia."
I understand. admiral
but we're gonna need some time.
I think if we press too hard.
we put the hostage at risk.
We're gonna need to use
some tactical patience. Over.
"Do your best to talk them down. Frank.
but you're on the clock."
"We're deploying a SEAL team with USS
Boxer and USS Halyburton as support."
"If you haven't gotten Phillips back
by the time they arrive..."
"the SEALs will take care of it."
I understand all. admiral.
Can I have some water. please?
Water?
Drive this thing right.
Calm down. We're on the ocean.
I should throw you off this boat
right now.
- You need to sit down and relax.
- Hey. water.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Hey. Hey.
That's enough.
Take it away.
From now on this water is only for us.
Stop being such an asshole.
You've got to control him.
Just drive and shut up.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Hufan. can you hear me?
Are you having trouble?
No trouble. Irish. Slow piece of shit.
Yeah. yeah. Shallow-draft.
And you're fighting the current.
Gotta take that into account.
I know what I'm doing.
Yeah. yeah. sure. you do. Of course.
You're the captain now.
Oh. hey. captain...
why don't we open up that forward hatch
and get a little more air in here?
What's wrong with you?
Don't talk to me.
A little air might do him some good.
Yeah. open the hatch so your crew...
no tricks. No. No tricks. Irish.
Hufan. can you hear me?
We should be heading northwest.
We've got to get to Garaad's port.
I am but there's a lot of wind.
- Just go.
- Okay. then let me do it.
"Muse? Muse? Are you there?"
"Muse? Are you there?"
Hufan. where are you?
"I'm having trouble with the engine."
"Head home.
I'll be there as soon as I can."
Hey. we're alone out here.
We need you to pick us up.
We've got to get out of this lifeboat.
"Shut up and listen to me."
"You screwed up getting the ship..."
"so. Garaad says bring back that captain
or don't come back at all."
Sounds like there's a problem.
Is there a problem?
Problem.
No problem. Irish.
Everything gonna be okay.
(SEAL STAGING BASE - VIRGINIA)
- Yes. sir.
- "Here's the latest from SOCOM."
"Bainbridge CO has until your arrival
to negotiate a surrender."
"But upon boarding.
you will assume operation command."
"The White House has authorised
any means necessary to resolve this."
Roger that.
Boss. we're setting up comms in the bird
right now.
I need air.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
When are we going to be home?
I can't feel my foot anymore.
It's like hell in here.
You wanna tell him maybe not to do that?
He wants air.
Well. that thing is still loaded.
He's got the clip in it.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Talk too much. Too much.
Gonna need some more water.
When we get home...
you'll get a million bottles of it.
- All the water you want.
- Really?
Last year I took a Greek ship.
Six million dollars.
Six million dollars?
So. what are you doing here?
Shut up. Irish.
Too much talk.
Your problem isn't me talking to you.
Your problem is you not listening.
Hey.
You think you have any power here?
- Let him go.
- I should shoot you and be done.
Take your gun off him.
I'm the captain. Who do you think you are?
You're taking his side?
You let the American do whatever he wants.
I'm losing control.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
It's the Americans.
Get something to tie the doors.
Alabama lifeboat.
this is Frank Castellano...
commander of the USS Bainbridge.
We wanna get Captain Phillips back safely
and end this thing peacefully.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- No move.
- All right.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- Alabama lifeboat. come in.
No military action.
No military action. No al Qaeda.
We are just fishermen.
"Calm down. brother."
"We're here for the captain. not for you."
They have a spy with them.
Hey. you. Who are you?
My name is Nemo.
I work with the US Navy.
"We just want to talk."
I talk English.
I want 10 million dollars.
It's not that easy but we'll work on it.
In the meantime.
what if I bring you some food and water?
No tricks or your captain dead.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
"Request to have pilot ladder lowered
and someone standing by."
- Shane Murphy?
- Yeah. that's me.
Lieutenant Hicks. USS Bainbridge.
You're entering a military engagement
zone. sir.
Need you to bring the ship left
to 210 immediately.
We are here to escort you to Mombasa
to ensure that the ship is safe.
Your captain will be in good hands.
All right. You heard him. guys.
OSS. keep the camera on the lifeboat.
"ASTAC. aye.'
Sir. the boat deck is manned and ready.
VBSS is on station.
Request permission to lower the RHIBs.
- Execute.
- Aye. sir.
Bridge TAO. launch the RHIBs.
They're coming.
Bilal. watch him.
Watch him closely.
Irish. your crew run.
- Ship go.
- It's the Navy clearing the area.
You better think about what you're doing.
Navy good. They protect us.
Back to Somalia.
The Navy's not here to protect you.
They're not here to negotiate either.
No choice.
I got you.
Open your door.
We are here with your supplies.
Guns down. America. guns down.
Calm down. brother.
We're just here to help you.
Put your guns down now.
"We got one outside and one in the hatch."
Push the track on the link.
Listen. we need to see our guy.
We've got supplies. food. water for you...
but we need to see our captain.
Okay. Wait.
- They want to see him.
- Bring him out.
- Let's go.
All right. All right. All right.
Okay. okay. All right. I'm coming.
Go.
There you go. Down.
- "Visual confirmation of captain."
- You all right. captain?
Yeah. Yeah. I'm okay. Yeah. yeah.
Listen. Does my family know where I am?
Yes. sir. We're keeping them updated.
It's important they know where I am.
I'm in Seat 15.
You understand?
"I'm in Seat 15."
All stations. TAO. log it. Seat 15.
Break. CICWO. TAO.
Send that to CTF 151 and SOCOM.
Don't worry. sir. We'll handle it.
Get him back inside.
Shut up and don't move.
Calm down. we just want to talk.
We've got your supplies here. Food. water.
- Where's the money?
- Food. water.
"I don't want your food.
I want your money."
- "We got another on top."
- OSS. maintain camera footage.
- Hold on a second.
- No tricks. sir.
Ten million dollars. sir.
Ten million dollars.
Listen. you're hurt.
We've got doctors onboard.
- Let us take care of you.
- Hurry up.
They're treating us like children.
Ten million dollars. when?
It's not that easy so we need time.
We've got to talk about this.
Hurry up. I said.
No camera. No camera.
Gunfire. take cover.
Who fired? TAO. who fired?
- Get the RHIBs out of there.
- Scram the RHIBs. scram the RHIBs.
Are you crazy? What are you doing?
- You'll get us all killed.
- Do you have to talk all day?
You're crazy.
What do you think you're doing?
All you do is talk.
- "Alabama lifeboat. come in."
- Move.
You have to be strong
to get what you want.
"We have to talk."
Just an accident. Just an accident.
Is anyone hurt?
No. American fine. American okay.
I need to hear it from him.
- I say he okay.
- I need to hear it from him.
Bring him here.
Get up. Get up. Get up.
Come on. Move. Move.
- Talk.
- Yeah. yeah. it's me.
Are you okay?
It's falling apart in here.
He just fired off a round next to my head.
- Is the leader there?
- Yeah. he can hear you.
"Captain. listen to me.
We will not tolerate this."
"As captain of the ship..."
"you're responsible for the lives
of everyone onboard."
"And right now
you are putting them in serious jeopardy."
We wanna resolve this thing peacefully.
"So let's find a way out of this together
before someone gets hurt."
Alabama lifeboat. respond.
I talk when I go Somalia.
- Sit down.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
- "TAO. lifeboat is under way."
- TAO. aye.
Captain. sir. the lifeboat's 12 hours
from the Somali coast.
Boxer and Halyburton have arrived.
ETA on the SEAL team is 0400.
Irish. no worry.
Everything gonna be okay.
After this. I go America.
I always wanted to go America.
Go to New York. buy a car.
This situation has gotten bad.
Hey. this situation has gotten bad.
There are two more ships.
one on either side.
That one is huge.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Oh. God.
Sit down. Sit down.
- Sit down.
- Down. Down.
Bilal. get the ropes.
Hey. captain. it's all over.
It's all over. captain.
The other ropes.
There's a reason your boss took off
on you and isn't coming back.
It's because
he didn't wanna take on the Navy.
He's gone. He's left you all alone.
You had a plan. captain.
you had a plan to take my ship.
And that didn't work out.
so you thought you could take me?
- Shut up. Irish.
- And make a run to Somalia?
They got half the US Navy out there.
You gotta give up. You gotta stop.
I can't stop. Irish.
The Navy is not gonna let you win.
They can't let you win.
They would rather sink this boat
than let you get me back to Somalia.
It's over.
I come too far. Irish.
I can't give up. No.
- Hello?
- "Sir. the SEALs are inbound..."
- "deploying three miles off our stern."
- Roger that.
I need to piss.
Fast.
Saltwater would be good for your foot.
He got out.
Turn the boat around.
Bilal. you idiot.
Turn it. Faster. faster.
Move or we'll leave you.
Captain's in Combat.
Cap. Cap. We got two in the water.
Two in the water.
Starboard side. I see them both.
- Here we got two guys in the water.
- What about Phillips?
- Is one of them Phillips?
- We don't know. We can't tell.
They're in the water. In the water.
One may be Phillips
and probably one pirate.
- But we don't know.
- We've gotta be sure.
And gentlemen.
let's get a flare in the air.
Find him. Don't kill him.
Don't shoot.
I'll shoot you.
Stop. What are you doing?
He's getting away.
- Don't kill him.
- Better to kill him than let him escape.
There he is.
I'm ordering you. Don't kill him.
"Bainbridge. this is RHIB 3.
We have SEALs inbound."
Flare's up. captain.
"Target angle 020 on the lifeboat
right now.
- Can't tell who's in the water.
- No clear shot at the Tangos.
Nobody shoots unless there's a clear shot.
Where is he?
Here he is. Here he is.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
He's here.
One more in the water.
We've got one more in the water.
Help.
Come. come. Don't shoot.
All right.
- Come on.
- All right. All right.
- Come on. Forward.
- All right. All rigth.
Got him.
Come on.
- Go.
- Okay. okay.
Go in. Irish. Go. Go. Irish.
Sir. the SEALs are coming aboard.
"Prepare to board the SEALs."
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Where are you go? Tell me. Tell me.
Are you crazy?
Where's the captain?
Captain is waiting for you on the bridge.
sir.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Not today.
Stop him.
That's enough.
Don't kill him.
If you kill him. we'll all die.
- What do you want me to do with him?
- What is he doing?
Bainbridge to lifeboat.
you must surrender.
"You will not be permitted to go further."
It's a helicopter.
Get to the other side.
Alabama lifeboat. respond.
Hurry. Go.
I'm trying.
Go.
"You have a choice to make. captain.
Surrender now and this ends peacefully."
"Beyond that. I cannot help you.
You must surrender."
They think you are playing games.
Do something.
"You cannot win this."
Make the right decision here.
You are running out of time.
Do you understand me?
Do you want to go
to an American prison?
"This is your last chance."
Is that what you want?
I know how to handle America.
Give me the pistol.
They think I'm playing games. huh?
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Go. Go.
Up ladder.
Make a hole.
"Target in the hatch.
This is Bainbridge out."
Combat Bridge. they're holding a gun
to Phillips' head.
Yeah. He's kind of yelling
and waving his pistol back and forth.
I kill him. I kill him. Now. I kill him.
We got shots fired. captain.
We got shots fired.
- How many shots?
- Who fired? Who fired?
We're losing this.
Now what?
They have no respect for us.
We have to play games?
Give me the radio.
The helicopter is coming back.
America. I kill hostage now.
I kill hostage now.
I'm gonna put him in a body bag.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Talk. Talk.
They got a gun to my throat...
and they're gonna use a survival suit
as a body bag.
You're not just a fisherman.
"Men of the Alabama lifeboat.
I'm here to talk about your money."
"Repeat. I'm here to discuss your money."
Who is this?
I'm the negotiator.
I'm authorised to negotiate with you.
Insurance man?
Now. you are Abduwali Muse. right?
From Jariban. Puntland?
"From the clans of the Hawiye
and the Daarood?"
Your friends are Adan Bilal.
Walid Elmi and Nour Najee.
"But you are Muse. You're in command.
Is that correct?"
They know us.
Now we have spoken
with the elders of your tribe.
And they are coming here
to negotiate a deal. an exchange.
"We get our man back. you get your money.
But this has to be done in confidence."
"We don't want anyone to see the exchange.
And neither do the elders."
It's a lie.
You're running low on fuel.
We got some weather coming in...
so I'm suggesting that we tow you out
to the exchange point.
"But we need someone to come aboard
and negotiate the deal."
It's an ambush.
"Captain."
Okay.
It's an ambush.
Keep me posted on status.
- "Roger."
- Comms test radio check.
OSS. TAO. I need eyes on the RHIB.
I need eyes on the RHIB.
Captain's in Combat.
Tactical command
is now with the SEAL team.
TAO. where we at?
Sir. RHIBs are headed inbound
to the lifeboat.
Halyburton and Boxer are standing by
for your orders.
ASTAC. TAO.
I need a status at Halyburton's helo.
You need to be strong.
Don't let anyone in.
Whatever happens. don't stop.
It's my job.
Everything good. Irish.
Everything gonna be okay.
I go Navy ship...
get dollars...
you go home.
It was supposed to be easy.
I take ship...
ransom...
nobody get hurt.
You had 30.000 dollars
and a way to Somalia.
It wasn't enough?
I got bosses.
They got rules.
We all got bosses.
There's gotta be something
other than being a fisherman...
and kidnapping people.
Maybe in America. Irish.
Maybe in America.
A boat is here.
Alabama lifeboat. this is the US Navy.
Open the hatch.
Gun down. Put the gun down.
Relax. I need to see the captain.
- I show you captain. Back.
- Relax.
I show you captain. Back.
- Come on up.
- Back.
- Listen.
- What?
- We gotta move our other boat closer.
- Up.
We gotta hook up a towline.
- No tricks.
- No tricks. No tricks.
We just wanna see the captain...
and then get you safely to the ship
for the meeting with the elders.
Anything happen. he die.
"Anything happen. he die. I tell you."
- Sir. we have ears on the boat.
- Check.
Okay. here he comes.
Be advised. I have eyes on the package.
Captain. are you okay?
- Yeah. yeah. Are you taking care of this?
- This'll be over soon.
And. captain. I got a uniform.
a clean uniform.
I need you to wear this.
And stay in the seat
you've been sitting in.
Put this on. captain.
We need to keep you healthy.
It's very important
that we keep you healthy.
Stay calm. It's going to be okay.
- Go back.
- Just relax.
Here. take it.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Inside. Go.
Go.
- Where are the elders?
- The elders are being flown in.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Put the gun inside.
We'll go take you to your elders.
Anything happen. he die.
I give you my word.
Everything will be fine.
Put the gun down.
Gun down.
Wait.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Come on aboard. Just relax.
- Take my hand.
- Relax.
Hey. We're almost there. Just relax.
We got you. Come on. Nice and easy. Okay.
Everything's gonna be okay.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Captain. it'll be over soon. Hang tough.
Stay in the same seat
you've been sitting in.
Two-two-four feet.
Stern seas.
Okay. the wind shouldn't be a factor.
Where do we need to be?
She's at 235 metres.
91's gonna be optimal.
Sir. one Somali is extracted.
RHIB is headed inbound.
Towline is attached.
TAO. let's initiate high-speed manoeuvre.
Aye. sir.
"Halyburton. Boxer. This is Bainbridge."
"Commence high-speed manoeuvres. Over."
Okay. Bring him over here.
Here.
Okay. get it off of him.
Come up this way. Up this way.
Hey. go right here.
I'm Chief O'Brien.
Let's get you taken care of inside. Okay?
Take him inside. Get him looked at.
- Can I see your hand?
- No. Where elders?
We'll talk about that later.
We're going this way.
Through this door. Watch your head.
This way. Let's go.
Stand over here.
One suspected pirate onboard
in the starboard hangar.
- Copy that.
- Hold it.
Right there.
Where are the elders?
The elders will be here soon.
Relax. We're gonna take care of you.
Your captain knows what he's doing.
You're gonna get your money now.
What's going on?
I can't see.
Give me the radio.
Too much light. We no see.
We're going to initiate the tow.
I repeat.
we are going to initiate the tow.
You need to tell your driver
that he needs to stay in his seat...
and continue steering.
Alpha team is green at this time.
One green. two red.
Lifeboat's under tow.
We're at five knots. sir.
Copy that. We need three targets green.
Keep it steady. Keep it steady.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Hey. Hey.
I'm just putting on the shirt
like they said. that's all.
If he moves again. shoot him.
Sir. the pirates have just issued
a threat.
What's the translation?
"If he moves again. shoot him."
It's getting rough.
Keep it straight.
TAO. aye.
High-speed manoeuvres
are creating some big waves...
headed inbound on the lifeboat. sir.
Slow down. You make waves.
What kind of games are they playing?
I can't hold it straight.
Be a man. Just shut up and steer.
American ship. answer me.
USA. answer me.
Alpha's green. Bravo and Charlie are red.
"Too much waves."
"US Navy. Too much waves."
Alabama lifeboat. this is negotiator.
We'll pull you into our wake.
"If you ride in our wake.
it'll be smoother. Negotiator out."
Irish. Irish. What you doing?
What you doing?
Alpha team green. One green. two red.
Give me a distance.
Two twenty. Still one twenty-nine out.
Stop writing. Irish.
If he sees you. he kill me and you both.
American ship.
Answer me.
"US Navy. answer."
"I speak to Muse."
I want to speak with him.
Alpha and Charlie teams green. Bravo red.
Alabama lifeboat. this is the negotiator.
Your leader is in the helo hangar
waiting for the elders.
Where are the elders?
Where are elders?
American ship. answer.
Hey.
Hey. What is this?
What is this you writing? Tell me.
Hey.
They've got something going on in there.
I think it's a fight.
Stop. Stop.
Pull up the audio.
TAO. give me Screen 3 on the left.
Stop him.
Bilal. stop him. Stop.
- Stop Irish. Stop Irish. Stop Irish.
- Bring the rope.
Alpha and Charlie are red.
We are three red this time.
Alabama lifeboat. this is the negotiator.
If you harm the hostage.
we do not have a deal.
"Do you copy?"
Tie him.
Alabama lifeboat. if you harm
the hostage. we do not have a deal.
Do you understand?
What are you doing?
Captain Phillips. can you hear me?
- Captain Phillips. can you hear me?
- He's screaming. sir.
One fifty-five.
They're sixty-four metres out.
One fifty-five. check. Speed up the tow.
(SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)
Shut up.
Get a blindfold.
Can you see this?
Can you see it?
Let's reacquire targets.
weapons release on my command.
One thirty-five metres.
That's 44 out from optimal.
Alpha green. Bravo and Charlie
are still red. We have two red.
Blindfold him.
Kid. just put your hands up.
You're just a kid.
Put your weapons down
and put your hands up.
Kid. put your hands up.
Is anybody hearing this?
Tell my family I love them.
Andrea. I love you.
I love you. Ange.
Honey. I love you.
I love you. Danny. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry I'm here and not there with you.
"Can anybody hear this?
I can't stand this anymore."
One thirty metres.
That's 39 out from optimal.
Two red. No shot. We're still at two red.
I need sights on targets.
I need three targets green.
Don't kill him.
The elders are coming.
We will get our money.
You are both idiots.
No one is coming.
Alpha green. Bravo green.
Two green. one red.
- One twenty-one. Thirty metres out.
- "I can't take any more."
I'm all done.
That's it.
We will all die if you kill him.
Everything they told you was a lie.
They will kill us all
and he is behind everything.
- One seventeen metres.
- Two green. one red.
- We do not have a shot.
- I need eyes on.
Sir. they're gonna shoot him.
- "Gun drawn. Gun drawn."
- Stop the tow.
"Roger. Stop the tow."
Execute.
What was that?
Oh. no.
We're gonna get you out of here
and get you home.
"Take him down. Take him down.
The hostage is safe."
Get down.
- Put your head down.
- What?
- Good job. guys. We got them.
- Three Tangos down.
Captain Phillips is safe and en route.
Bainbridge. over.
Well done. everybody.
- Right here. Go to this guy right here.
- Come with me. captain.
You just sit down.
Are you okay? Are you okay?
This way.
- Watch your step.
- Step.
Careful. sir.
Welcome aboard. These guys
are gonna take you straight to medical...
and get you checked out.
HM-1. he has impact injuries.
He's in shock.
Okay. Are you able to walk okay. sir?
- Are you okay? What's your name?
- Rich. Rich Phillips.
We're gonna turn you over to the United
States Department of Justice.
You're going to America to face trial.
You shoot my friends?
Captain Phillips is free.
All of your friends are dead.
It's over. You're going to America now.
You have been suspected
of piracy operations.
I am now gonna read you your rights.
You have the right to remain silent
and make no statement at all.
Any statement you do. may or can be used
against you in judicial proceedings.
Captain Phillips. please come in.
Have a seat.
Trauma shears.
I'm Chief O'Brien.
I'll be your corpsman today. okay?
Can you please tell me what's going on?
Can you talk?
- Can you tell me what's going on?
- Yeah.
I'm okay.
Are you okay? Because you don't look okay.
Are you in any pain right now?
Are you in pain right now?
Right there. on your side.
Okay. Let me see it really quick.
Can you lift up your arm a little bit?
Does that hurt?
- Little bit?
- Little bit.
Okay. Is it tender?
Go ahead and put your arm down.
Okay. I need you to look at me.
I need you to calm down...
and I need you to breathe.
There you go. Deep breaths.
There you go. Very good.
Awesome.
Now I want you to relax your arm.
Okay. We're gonna put this little thing
on your finger...
and we're gonna get your heart rate
and your oxygen level...
- make sure you're breathing okay.
- Okay.
I want you to keep doing that. okay?
- Gonna put this on your finger.
- What happened to your head?
Captain. can you tell me
what happened to your head?
Put it on your finger.
They...
It's okay. take your time. take your time.
There's a two centimetre laceration
on the left eyebrow.
It's okay. It's all right.
- Okay. Okay.
- It's okay.
I want you to look at me
and I want you to breathe.
- Do you understand?
- Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. all right.
He's got a four centimetre gap.
Little laceration there
on the left temple.
- Got it.
- Okay. Very good.
All right. You're doing great. okay?
Did all this blood
come from your eyebrow and your head?
- What?
- Did all the blood...
come from your eyebrow right here
and on your head?
- All of this.
- Well. not. no. not all of it.
- Okay.
- That's not mine.
Okay. all right. all right. Look at me.
- Okay. We're gonna lay you down. Okay?
- Okay.
- All right.
- Yeah. Yeah.
I want you to lay down nice and gently.
Nice and gently.
You're okay. You're okay. I got you.
There you go. Very good.
Captain. you're safe now. okay?
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
- You're okay.
- Thank you.
You're welcome.
- Does my family know?
- Your family knows you're safe.
You'll be able to call them
as soon as you are taken care of.
Sir. I need you to breathe. okay?
You are safe and you are fine.
It's gonna be okay.
Everything's gonna be okay.
(RICHARD PHILLIPS RETURNED TO VERMONT ON APRIL 17. 2009
AND WAS REUNITED WITH HIS FAMILY.)
(ABDUWALI MUSE WAS CONVICTED OF PIRACY)
(AND IS CURRENTLY SERVING 33 YEARS AT THE
FEDERAL CORRECTIONAL COMPLEX. TERRE HAUTE. INDIANA.)
(ON JULY 25. 2010.
CAPTAIN PHILLIPS WENT BACK TO SEA.)